<a name="swaggerTags"></a>tags | [[Tag Object](#tagObject)] | A list of tags used by the specification with additional metadata. The order of the tags can be used to reflect on their order by the parsing tools. Not all tags that are used by the [Operation Object](#operationObject) must be declared. The tags that are not declared may be organized randomly or based on the tools' logic. Each tag name in the list MUST be unique.
The Paths may be empty, due to [ACL constraints](#securityFiltering).
A Path Item may be empty, due to [ACL constraints](#securityFiltering). The path itself is still exposed to the documentation viewer but they will not know which operations and parameters are available.
<a name="operationId"></a>operationId | `string` | Unique string used to identify the operation. The id MUST be unique among all operations described in the API. Tools and libraries MAY use the operationId to uniquely identify an operation, therefore, it is recommended to follow common programming naming conventions.
<a name="operationConsumes"></a>consumes | [`string`] | A list of MIME types the operation can consume. This overrides the [`consumes`](#swaggerConsumes) definition at the Swagger Object. An empty value MAY be used to clear the global definition. Value MUST be as described under [Mime Types](#mimeTypes).
<a name="operationProduces"></a>produces | [`string`] | A list of MIME types the operation can produce. This overrides the [`produces`](#swaggerProduces) definition at the Swagger Object. An empty value MAY be used to clear the global definition. Value MUST be as described under [Mime Types](#mimeTypes).
<a name="parameterRequired"></a>required | `boolean` | Determines whether this parameter is mandatory. If the parameter is [`in`](#parameterIn) "path", this property is **required** and its value MUST be `true`. Otherwise, the property MAY be included and its default value is `false`. 
A container for the expected responses of an operation. The container maps a HTTP response code to the expected response. It is not expected from the documentation to necessarily cover all possible HTTP response codes, since they may not be known in advance. However, it is expected from the documentation to cover a successful operation response and any known errors.
<a name="responseSchema"></a>schema | [Schema Object](#schemaObject) | A definition of the response structure. It can be a primitive, an array or an object. If this field does not exist, it means no content is returned as part of the response. As an extension to the [Schema Object](#schemaObject), its root `type` value may also be `"file"`. This SHOULD be accompanied by a relevant `produces` mime-type.
Other than the JSON Schema subset fields, the following fields may be used for further schema documentation.
<a name="schemaXml"></a>xml | [XML Object](#xmlObject) | This MAY be used only on properties schemas. It has no effect on root schemas. Adds Additional metadata to describe the XML representation format of this property.
<a name="xmlWrapped"></a>wrapped | `boolean` | MAY be used only for an array definition. Signifies whether the array is wrapped (for example, `<books><book/><book/></books>`) or unwrapped (`<book/><book/>`). Default value is `false`. The definition takes effect only when defined alongside `type` being `array` (outside the `items`).
The extensions may or may not be supported by the available tooling, but those may be extended as well to add requested support (if tools are internal or open-sourced).
Some objects in the Swagger specification may be declared and remain empty, or completely be removed, even though they are inherently the core of the API documentation. 
The reasoning behind it is to allow an additional layer of access control over the documentation itself. While not part of the specification itself, certain libraries may choose to allow access to parts of the documentation based on some form of authentication/authorization.
1. The [Paths Object](#pathsObject) may be empty. It may be counterintuitive, but this may tell the viewer that they got to the right place, but can't access any documentation. They'd still have access to the [Info Object](#infoObject) which may contain additional information regarding authentication.
2. The [Path Item Object](#pathItemObject) may be empty. In this case, the viewer will be aware that the path exists, but will not be able to see any of its operations or parameters. This is different than hiding the path itself from the [Paths Object](#pathsObject) so the user will not be aware of its existence. This allows the documentation provider a finer control over what the viewer can see.
